1 https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn

Welcome to the MDN learning area. This set of articles aims to guide complete beginners to web development with all that they need to start coding websites.

The aim of this area of MDN is not to take you from "beginner" to "expert" but to take you from "beginner" to "comfortable." From there, you should be able to start making your way, learning from the rest of MDN, and other intermediate to advanced resources that assume a lot of previous knowledge.

If you are a complete beginner, web development can be challenging — we will hold your hand and provide enough detail for you to feel comfortable and learn the topics properly. You should feel at home whether you are a student learning web development (on your own or as part of a class), a teacher looking for class materials, a hobbyist, or someone who just wants to understand more about how web technologies work.

2 Google Pixel 6 and 6 Pro review: flagships found https://youtu.be/jPm4ouSR_NI 

3 Exploring Moscow sights, meeting other YouTubers & running from creeps🎃 // Big Moscow VLOG https://youtu.be/q7k5kUHNLAs 

4 https://www.amazon.com/Crafting-Interpreters-Robert-Nystrom/dp/0990582930/

Despite using them every day, most software engineers know little about how programming languages are designed and implemented. For many, their only experience with that corner of computer science was a terrifying "compilers" class that they suffered through in undergrad and tried to blot from their memory as soon as they had scribbled their last NFA to DFA conversion on the final exam.

That fearsome reputation belies a field that is rich with useful techniques and not so difficult as some of its practitioners might have you believe. A better understanding of how programming languages are built will make you a stronger software engineer and teach you concepts and data structures you'll use the rest of your coding days. You might even have fun.

This book teaches you everything you need to know to implement a full-featured, efficient scripting language. You’ll learn both high-level concepts around parsing and semantics and gritty details like bytecode representation and garbage collection. Your brain will light up with new ideas, and your hands will get dirty and calloused.

Starting from main(), you will build a language that features rich syntax, dynamic typing, garbage collection, lexical scope, first-class functions, closures, classes, and inheritance. All packed into a few thousand lines of clean, fast code that you thoroughly understand because you wrote each one yourself.

5 https://time.com/4417679/republican-convention-peter-thiel-transcript/

Good evening. I’m Peter Thiel. I build companies and I’m supporting people who are building new things, from social networks to rocket ships. I’m not a politician. But neither is Donald Trump. He is a builder, and it’s time to rebuild America.

Where I work in Silicon Valley, it’s hard to see where America has gone wrong. My industry has made a lot of progress in computers and in software, and, of course, it’s made a lot of money. But Silicon Valley is a small place. Drive out to Sacramento, or even just across the bridge to Oakland, and you won’t see the same prosperity. That’s just how small it is.

Across the country, wages are flat. Americans get paid less today than ten years ago. But healthcare and college tuition cost more every year. Meanwhile Wall Street bankers inflate bubbles in everything from government bonds to Hillary Clinton’s speaking fees. Our economy is broken. If you’re watching me right now, you understand this better than any politician in Washington D.C.

And you know this isn’t the dream we looked forward to. Back when my parents came to America looking for that dream, they found it right here in Cleveland. They brought me here as a one-year-old and this is where I became an American. Opportunity was everywhere. My dad studied engineering at Case Western Reserve University, just down the road from where we are now. Because in 1968, the world’s high tech capital wasn’t just one city: all of America was high tech.

It’s hard to remember this, but our government was once high tech, too. When I moved to Cleveland, defense research was laying the foundations for the internet. The Apollo program was just about to put a man on the moon–and it was Neil Armstrong, from right here in Ohio. The future felt limitless.

But today our government is broken. Our nuclear bases still use floppy disks. Our newest fighter jets can’t even fly in the rain. And it would be kind to say the government’s software works poorly, because much of the time it doesn’t even work at all. That is a staggering decline for the country that completed the Manhattan project. We don’t accept such incompetence in Silicon Valley, and we must not accept it from our government.

Instead of going to Mars, we have invaded the Middle East. We don’t need to see Hillary Clinton’s deleted emails: her incompetence is in plain sight. She pushed for a war in Libya, and today it’s a training ground for ISIS. On this most important issue Donald Trump is right. It’s time to end the era of stupid wars and rebuild our country.

When I was a kid, the great debate was about how to defeat the Soviet Union. And we won. Now we are told that the great debate is about who gets to use which bathroom. This is a distraction from our real problems. Who cares?

Of course, every American has a unique identity. I am proud to be gay. I am proud to be a Republican. But most of all I am proud to be an American. I don’t pretend to agree with every plank in our party’s platform; but fake culture wars only distract us from our economic decline, and nobody in this race is being honest about it except Donald Trump.

While it is fitting to talk about who we are, today it’s even more important to remember where we came from. For me that is Cleveland, and the bright future it promised.

When Donald Trump asks us to Make America Great Again, he’s not suggesting a return to the past. He’s running to lead us back to that bright future.

Tonight I urge all of my fellow Americans to stand up and vote for Donald Trump.

6 https://maximonline.com/style/men-hairstyles/15-hairstyles-for-men-short-hairstyles-for-any-face-shape/

The crew cut has long been a favorite short haircut for men. It’s a simple but versatile style that can be easily identified by its short sides and top. Many men favor the crew cut as a hairstyle in more professional settings, but it can be easily modified with a fade and some styling to give it more texture.

7 https://www.rd.com/article/travel-mistakes-never-make-again/

I didn’t venture outside of the United States until I was a junior in college—a two-week educational journey through Egypt as part of my university’s January term. That trip changed everything for me. Since then, I’ve prioritized seeing as many corners of the world as possible, which has resulted in visiting more than 30 countries, five continents, and even living in South Korea for a year. To say that I’ve made some missteps along the way would be an understatement, but I’ve come out on the other end all the better. Hopefully, you can learn (the easy way!) from some of the mistakes I’ll never make again.

8 https://maximonline.com/lifestyle/self-growth/15-ways-to-work-smarter-not-harder/

Being an efficient worker means being able to work smarter, not harder. You can put in as much time and effort as you want into your work, but ultimately, this won’t be the best way to go about your work in the long run. A better way to get things done is to adopt a mentality that promotes working smart. This means making the most out of the time on your hands in a way that allows you to cut down on any additional steps that are ultimately unnecessary. Thus, working smart entails having to use your time wisely to get things done in a timely manner.

There are different approaches to take when it comes to working smart. Time management will be essential, but there are other things you can adjust in your work habits to ensure you make the most of your time. Here are some tips to help you work smarter, not harder.

When you want to work smarter, not harder, it will be important for you to know which tasks need to be prioritized. To help you stay organized, create a checklist and arrange tasks according to their importance and level of urgency. This will make you more efficient at work by focusing on tasks that require immediate attention. Invest in a bullet journal as they’re great for making checklists and keeping your workdays more organized.

Don’t forget that you are a priority as well. If your body and mind are screaming for rest, then prioritize yourself and take a break. You won’t be able to work properly when you’re physically incapable of actually being productive.

9

10

