Korea is sailing into uncharted waters as three decades of globalization come to an end and a new era of trade blocs begins in the context of a new Cold War.

Korea has been in pursuit of better ties with the Asean countries under the New Southern Policy.

the BOK said consumers have braced for higher borrowing costs ahead

As in other embattled countries, high inflation is starting to look entrenched in South Korea, as the protracted Russia-Ukraine war and lockdowns of major cities in China clog the already worsening global supply chain and send energy and commodity prices soaring higher.

In terms of sheer cruelty and wantonness, these shootings rival anything seen in the United States. 

How can you see other players reacting to your actions near instantly, in spite of the fact that the communication between your computer and the server is not instant?

To keep that in perspective, light can barely make it across the continental united states in that time, yet we have to keep two clients in sync through networks that may span more than half of the circumference of the globe?

Funding agencies have not heeded scientists who have been warning for more than a decade that further monkeypox outbreaks could occur, he adds.

But health officials have been examining sexual activity at two raves in Spain and Belgium as drivers of monkeypox transmission, according to the Associated Press, raising speculation that the virus has evolved to become more adept at sexual transmission.

All of the new attention on monkeypox has laid bare just how much scientists have yet to understand about the virus, McCollum says.

Chip business will take utmost priority.

The chipmaker plans to break ground on the 120-trillion-won Yongin complex this month and begin operations in 2026.

The company is reportedly considering building another manufacturing plant in Cheongju, according to local press.

U.S. and South Korean intelligence officials issued multiple warnings in the past few weeks that the North was gearing up for another nuclear test.

Sherman reaffirmed Washington's “ironclad commitment” to ensure the security of its Asian allies, while adding it was ready to engage Pyongyang in “sustained and sincere dialogue,” the State Department said in a statement.

The latest tests prompted the United States to call for new sanctions on North Korea.

Washington has called on the international community to join its condemnation of the North’s ongoing missile tests, describing them as a threat to the region and the entire world.

“It’s incumbent on the international community to join us in condemning the DPRK's flagrant and repeated violations of these multiple U.N. Security Council resolutions and to uphold their obligations under all relevant U.N. Security Council resolutions,” he added.

The draft resolution to be presented on Thursday would “further restrict North Korea’s ability to advance its unlawful WMD [weapons of mass destruction] and ballistic missile programs, it would streamline sanctions implementation and further facilitate the delivery of humanitarian aid to those in need,” another U.S. official told Reuters.

Park’s thriller-romance film, “Decision to Leave,” about a detective who comes across a widow who is a prime suspect in his murder investigation, stars Korean actor Park Hae-il and Chinese actor Tang Wei.

Song paid tribute to Kore-eda for his understanding of Korean culture, which made Song and other Korean actors comfortable throughout the shoot.

“I have seen almost all of Kore-eda’s films so far. Not just myself, but many Korean fans love his films for the distinctive aesthetics of Japanese movies,” Song told reporters.

A core measure is levying a zero quota tariff on ingredients for food, including wheat, flour, cooking oil, processed eggs and pork, until the end of this year.

About 92 percent of the unredeemed balance -- 250 billion won out of the 270 billion won -- came from Starbucks Korea, according to the report.

Meanwhile, Starbucks Corp. said in its 2022 first-quarter fiscal report that it has accumulated over $2 billion in “stored value card liability and current portion of deferred revenue” across the world.

One of the first -- and the biggest -- obstacles online platform startups face is an almost impenetrable fortress of exotic rules and penalties set up by an existing cartel of firms or professionals. These groups indulge in what economists call “rent-seeking” behaviors, referring to anticompetitive practices to ensure outsize profits at the expense of customers and competitors.

It is understandable that existing players instinctively try to keep their profiteering scheme against new entrants. But it is a slippery slope, since new innovative technologies are shattering decades-old protective covers -- as well as price-gouging -- for rent-seeking groups.

Last Thursday, the Constitutional Court ruled in a unanimous decision against the Korean Bar Association’s regulation banning lawyers from joining online legal platforms and punishing those who act as a paid broker between lawyers and clients.

The Korean Bar Association revised the internal code of ethics in May last year in an apparent bid to block online legal platforms like LawTalk from making inroads into its long-protected legal services market, valued at some 6 trillion won ($4.7 billion) as of 2019.

The Constitutional Court ruled that the bar association’s regulation, based largely on its “authoritative interpretation” of the Attorney-at-Law Act, is too vague in its wording, and thus can be subject to arbitrary application in a way that hinders lawyers’ freedom of expression.

The bar association’s distorted interpretation of the ruling is regrettable, as it clearly misses the key point that lawyers should be allowed to join online platforms that can provide better and more affordable legal services for clients.

Given the fast-paced platform businesses and technologies, it seems inevitable that more digital startups will spring up to tap into the established markets dominated by rent-seeking cartels and interest groups.

Korea's currency is appreciating against the dollar following signs of easing inflation and as China lifts its lockdown in Shanghai.

OPEC+ is set to stick to an oil production deal agreed last year at its meeting on June 2 and raise July output targets by 432,000 barrels per day, six OPEC+ sources told Reuters last week, rebuffing Western calls for a faster increase to lower surging prices.

Western nations, grappling with record inflation rates that are threatening economic growth, have repeatedly asked the group to accelerate its output hikes.

The cuts are set to be fully unwound by the end of September but the group's oil output has been falling sharply in reality as sanctions and buyer reluctance hit Russian output, and Nigeria and Angola pump well below target. 

Bonds tremble as inflation hits new records

Stocks steadied in Asia on Wednesday as Shanghai emerged blinking from two months of lockdown and a dip in oil prices dangled the prospect of a respite from rising energy prices, but nerves about inflation kept investors and bond markets on edge.

In the 1970s Arab states used the “oil weapon” of embargoes to punish Western governments for supporting Israel.

It also imperils one of Russia’s most lucrative sources of foreign-currency earnings. 

That is the price of unity: excluding oil delivered by pipelines was necessary to find a compromise with Hungary, which is both more sympathetic to Russia than most eu countries and critically dependent on the Soviet-era Druzhba pipeline (a name meaning “friendship” in Russian).

The Arab embargoes of the 1970s caused short-term pain for the West, but also spurred a drive for fuel efficiency that ultimately reduced its reliance on oil. 

The world relies on agrichemicals to feed itself. Rising costs will play havoc with harvests

Sanctions imposed in December 2021 on Belarus, which produces 18% of the world’s potash, over its government’s attempts to foment a migrant crisis in Europe, made things worse.

And while Nigeria and Qatar, flush with natural gas, are opening new nitrogen plants, and Canada has room to increase potash production, this will take time.

But these methods take time, effort and foresight, and are neither as quick nor effective as modern fertilisers. 

These days it is hard to turn a corner without bumping into predictions of an American recession.

turn a corner 고비를 넘기다

bump into somebody (우연히) ~와 마주치다

The track record is certainly ominous. 

As Larry Summers, a former treasury secretary, has observed, whenever inflation has risen above 4% and unemployment has dipped below 4%—two thresholds that, when breached, indicate economic overheating—America has suffered a recession within two years. 

There is broad agreement that, supply snarls and energy-price surges notwithstanding, demand is also excessive, and that tighter monetary policy is needed to return it to a normal level. 

the higher the Fed has to raise rates, the more punishing the downturn will be.

One way of trying to divine the path of a downturn is to consult history. 

Many observers point to similarities between today’s predicament and the early 1980s, when Paul Volcker’s Fed crushed inflation, causing a deep recession in the process.

Inflation is nowhere near as entrenched as at the start of Mr Volcker’s era.

The unusual nature of the deep covid-induced downturn in 2020, and the roaring recovery in 2021, when fiscal and monetary stimulus flooded the economy, limits the relevance of past episodes.

Consider three different facets: the real economy, the financial system and the central bank.

There is, however, a sting in the tail: when the recession ultimately ends, the consequences of the past few years of living dangerously with inflation may make for a sluggish recovery.

They have started to use some of this cash as living costs rise, but still retain a useful cushion.

A rise in unemployment seems all the more economically necessary today, as a way to relieve some of the upward pressure on wages and dampen inflation.

Less reassuringly, riskier companies also took advantage of easy money.

When a recession strikes, the ratings on many of these bonds could slip a notch or two.

That increases the chances of a flight to safety when the mood sours.

A recession would sap demand for their services.

Prudential regulations have pushed risky activities into darker corners of the financial system. 

An exuberant surge in house prices over the past two years means a decline in sales and values may be on the cards. 

“There is a substantially greater probability that we’ll need higher rates than the Fed now envisions or the market now predicts,” says Mr Summers.

Put differently, the Fed is embarking on a journey with a clear destination (low inflation), an obvious vehicle (interest rates) but hazy guesses about how to get there (how high rates must go).

put differently 달리 말하면

The Fed’s record over the past couple of months, since belatedly training its sights on inflation, opens up the possibility that it may be able to tame prices without a punishingly high increase in rates. 

A mild recession in 2023 could put paid to Joe Biden’s beleaguered presidency, perhaps helping usher Donald Trump back into the White House.

The task of easing would fall squarely on the Fed. But having just fought to contain an overheating economy and bring inflation to heel, the central bank would be queasy about revving up demand too much. And if the current cycle of rate increases stops at a low level, the Fed would not have much room to cut rates anyway. The next step would be once again to unleash quantitative easing (ie, purchasing assets such as government bonds in order to lower longer-term interest rates). It would, however, be fearful of the optics of “printing money” so soon after whipping inflation and just as a contentious election campaign gets under way.

And with fiscal policy on the sidelines and monetary policy badly hobbled, the chances are that America would face a painfully slow recovery. 

