In 1957, the Soviet Union launched a satellite called Sputnik 1 into Earth's orbit. This was the first satellite to be sent into space. The Space Race was on! The United States began funding NASA to compete with the Soviet Union. The United States wanted to be the first country to have a successful human space flight. Katherine G. Johnson contributed greatly to this effort. She wrote research papers that laid out many of the mathematical equations necessary for space travel.

https://www.readworks.org/article/A-Hidden-Figure-of-the-Space-Race-Katherine-G-Johnson/d52c4b49-20f8-4c65-baeb-a222446d8960#!articleTab:content/

Politicians and other groups have been debating over abortion for a very long time. The U.S. has two main political groups. They are the Democrats and the Republicans. In general, many Democratic politicians tend to support abortion rights. Many Republican politicians tend to support the idea that abortion should be a decision that's up to state governments to decide. Some Republican politicians say that abortion is morally wrong.

https://newsela.com/read/supreme-court-strikes-down-roe-v-wade/id/2001030346/

The Bank of Korea raised the rate by a quarter percentage point in May, the fifth in a round of monetary tightening that began last year. The monetary policy board is projected to increase rates by a historic 50 basis points to 2.25 percent at the Wednesday meeting, according to Reuters poll Monday.

Bank of Korea's central banker has repeatedly said that the current focus is inflation, which was 6 percent in June. That is the highest since the 6.8 percent jump in November 1988, when Korea was in the midst of the 1997 Asian financial crisis.

https://n.news.naver.com/article/newspaper/640/0000026388?date=20220712

Programming-related jobs have high rates of skill turnover. Over time, the types of skills required by companies hiring software developers change more rapidly than any other profession.

To demonstrate this, researchers analyzed job postings on more than 40,000 online job boards and company websites between 2007 and 2019, controlling for employer, location, and occupation. They defined "new" skills as those that were rare or non-existent in 2007 but prevalent in 2019 and "old" skills as those that were prevalent in 2007 but rare or extinct in 2019.

https://whoisnnamdi.com/never-enough-developers/

Plastic sports bottles shed hundreds of chemicals into the water they hold, a new study finds. The containers release even more pollutants after being run through a dishwasher. Although some of the chemicals might be harmful, no one knows whether there's any health risk from the amounts that end up in the water.

For years scientists knew that chemicals can leach out of plastic. Some of those chemicals are toxic. Manufacturers have removed some of the more worrisome chemicals, such as bisphenol A (BPA), from plastic products, such as water bottles. But scientists know little about what other chemicals might leave these products.

https://newsela.com/read/reusable-plastic-bottles-pollutants/id/2001029498/

There are many reasons why people leave their home countries. Some people may be looking for better employment. Some might want to explore new parts of the world, or to raise their families elsewhere. Others may move to pursue exciting educational opportunities. This type of voluntary movement from one country to another is called immigration. A person who chooses to move from one country to another to live there permanently is called an immigrant.

Unlike immigrants, some people are forced to leave their home country because of persecution, violence, or war in their home country. These people are called refugees, and they are worried about their safety. To protect themselves, refugees must flee from their home country and resettle in another one. Usually, refugees cannot return to their home countries after they leave because it is unsafe. This is another important difference between refugees and immigrants, as immigrants may return to their home countries if they want to and are able. The last important difference between refugees and immigrants is that refugees cannot be sent back to the country they are fleeing from. Immigrants, however, are subject to their new country’s immigration laws. This means immigrants can be turned away from entering a new country.

Refugees come from different countries around the world. In 2019, about 68% of refugees were from only five countries: Syria, Venezuela, Afghanistan, South Sudan, and Myanmar. In the same year, almost half the population of all refugees in the world were made up of children. Where did these refugees end up moving to? Often, the refugees fled to neighboring countries. But in some cases, the refugees moved across oceans to resettle in safer countries. By the end of 2019, Turkey, Colombia, Pakistan, Uganda, and Germany had the largest numbers of refugees.

Once someone has entered a new country in search of safety and protection, the person is not immediately considered a refugee. The country has to legally recognize someone as a refugee before that person can receive full protection. This process can take a long time in some countries, including the United States. When people have fled their home country and are waiting to be recognized as refugees, they are called asylum seekers. Many countries, like the United States, have laws and processes to determine if asylum seekers can become refugees officially. Since 1980, the United States has admitted refugees into the country every year. Refugees can apply to live and work in the United States without fear of being sent back to their home country.

The journeys and lives of refugees are difficult. They must leave their home communities to protect themselves and their families. Global organizations, like the United Nations and Amnesty International, work to support refugees. But countries and cities must also work to support their refugee populations. Refugees bring meaningful contributions to the communities they resettle to, including their homeland’s culture and history. In their own search for safety, refugees have become an important part of many communities worldwide.

https://www.readworks.org/article/Refugee-Communities-in-the-United-States/08bd53b5-b279-4c68-a9e2-28e24dacb1dd#!contentSection:5daf189f-fe1e-4bdc-8b19-b615d37b2700/

Observing the daily weather is part of a regular routine for many of us. Knowing the weather helps us decide what to wear and which activities we will do each day. Meteorologists are scientists who study the weather and atmosphere. They observe conditions in our atmosphere to develop the weather forecasts that help us know what the weather will be like every day.

Forecasters observe factors like temperature, humidity, precipitation, air pressure, wind speed, and wind direction to help predict the weather. These same factors have been used since the first weather observations were recorded. However, the weather instruments that scientists use and the way that they analyze these observations have changed significantly. Basic weather observation instruments include thermometers, rain gauges, barometers (to measure air pressure), and anemometers (to measure wind speed). Examples of more sophisticated equipment are wind profilers, weather balloons (radiosondes), Doppler radar, and satellites. Even with all this equipment available, human observations still provide important information about sky conditions, clouds, and the type, size, and amount of precipitation.

Each day in the United States over 210 million weather observations are processed and used to create weather forecasts. These measurements come from automated instruments, professional meteorologists, and thousands of trained volunteer observers. Observations are recorded and uploaded into powerful computer programs that create weather forecasts for different regions and for the entire globe. Meteorologists in the 126 National Weather Service offices around the United States combine these larger forecasts with local observations and their knowledge of local weather patterns to make a weather forecast for their area. These forecasts provide the local community with important information. They can predict weather that affects people flying planes or steering ships. They can also predict severe weather, volcanic ash, snow fall, and air quality.

https://www.readworks.org/article/Storms-and-Weather-Patterns/08858990-6f50-4f16-a645-11d6d060102b#!contentSection:88dee774-383a-47a4-b998-37fba76f3574/

Many people know that trash is a big problem on planet Earth. What many people don’t know is that trash has become a problem in outer space too. Years of space exploration have left tons of “space junk” in orbit around the planet.

According to BBC News, there are more than 22,000 pieces of junk in space around the earth. And these are just the items that we can see from the surface of the earth by telescopes or radars. There are also millions of smaller pieces of junk that we can’t see.

Objects, like bits of old space rockets or satellites, move around the planet at very high speeds, so fast that even a very small piece can break important satellites or become dangerous to people, particularly astronauts. If the tiniest piece of junk crashed into a spacecraft, it could damage the vehicle. That’s because the faster an object moves, the greater the impact if the object collides with something else.

To make things worse, when two objects in space collide, the two objects break into many smaller pieces. This happened in 2009 when a working United States satellite collided with a Russian satellite that was no longer functioning. The collision caused the satellites to break into more than 2,000 pieces, increasing the items of space junk.

To help minimize additional space junk, countries around the world have agreed to limit the time their space tools stay in orbit to 25 years. Each tool must be built to fall safely into the earth’s atmosphere, or the mass of gases that surround the earth, after that. In the upper parts of the atmosphere, it will burn up.

Many scientists are also proposing different ways to clean up space junk. In England a metal harpoon is being tested that can be fired into space trash, grip the trash, and then pull the space junk into the earth’s atmosphere where it would burn up.

The Germans have been planning a space mission with robots that would collect pieces of space trash and bring them back to Earth so that they can be safely destroyed.

In 2007 the Chinese tried to blow up one of its older satellites with a missile. Unfortunately, the explosion only created thousands of smaller pieces, adding junk in space!

"In our opinion the problem is very challenging, and it's quite urgent as well," said Marco Castronuovo, an Italian Space Agency researcher who is working to solve the problem. One reason that it’s urgent is that countries are sending more and more objects into space. Many of these objects are tools that help people use their cell phones or computers.

"The time to act is now; as we go farther in time we will need to remove more and more fragments," he says.

https://www.readworks.org/article/Space-and-Space-Travel/6931feb1-1851-4db9-a2b2-791a00fd6e3a#!contentSection:f4d334cc-e77b-43ad-b1c0-8bf5b7efe207/

Old ideas help power the newest bicycles.

Leonardo da Vinci never rode a bike. Bicycles didn't exist when he lived (1452—1519). But designs by da Vinci did inspire one of today's cutting edge bikes. Parts of the new bike follow sketches done by the artist and inventor in 1490.

What can today's bicycles gain from old da Vinci sketches? Bill Klehm says da Vinci's doodles were the inspiration to overcome some basic challenges of bike riding. "Have you ever had the chain fall off your bike?" Klehm asks. "Have you ever been stuck in the wrong gear and unable to climb a hill?"

Klehm is the president of Fallbrook Technologies. His company invented a new type of transmission for bikes. A transmission is a device that sends a vehicle's power to its wheels. The company named the new bike transmission NuVinci in honor of da Vinci.

Geared Up

The transmission in a traditional bike is a system of gears. Gears are sets of wheels with interlocking spikes. A chain connects gears on the pedals to gears on the wheel.

When you shift the gears on your bike, you move the bike chain between gears of different sizes. A large gear on the pedals and a small gear on the wheel make the bike travel a long way with each turn of the pedal. However, going uphill is hard. Shifting to larger gears in back and smaller pedal gears makes pedaling easier, but the bike doesn't go as fast.

Early bikes had just one gear. Top bikes today let riders choose between 24 gears. Not bad, Klehm says—but there's room for improvement. Switching the chain between gears can make pedaling hard. Sometimes the chain falls off.

On the Ball

Fallbrook's new bike transmission, called a continuously variable transmission (CVT), doesn't have those problems. In fact, it doesn't have traditional gears at all. It uses a system of rotating balls. The balls transmit the power from the chain to the wheel. The position of the balls determines how much each turn of the pedal moves the wheel. Unlike shifting conventional gears, changing the position of the balls goes very smoothly. "There's no clicking between gears," Klehm explains.

So far, more than 15,000 bikes with the NuVinci have hit the streets. In 2008, Klehm said, the company expects to sell 80,000 more. Bike gears soon might go out of style, just as huge front tires did 120 years ago. If gears go, expect learning to use the new transmission to be simple. As Klehm says, "You adjust until it feels good … and you're where you need to be."

https://www.readworks.org/article/Innovation/cc01bace-9c69-46a2-88e6-4dd4b1a2c113#!contentSection:1a093b5c-c445-49d7-bbd5-032475a5c0e2/

