Devolving power over nukes raises the risk of both unapproved and accidental use. This may motivate South Koreans and Americans to tread cautiously

https://twitter.com/theeconomist/status/1574003535213199361

A textbook example of how not to design and not to sell a fiscal expansion.   While we were worried about Italy,  the UK sneaked in.  We are lucky that the UK is not in the euro… Otherwise, we would be facing another euro crisis.  ☹

https://twitter.com/ojblanchard1/status/1573582960720224256

⚡️Zelensky: Every Russian soldier that surrenders will get 'civilized' treatment.

Zelensky said Ukraine will ensure "the secrecy of the circumstances of the surrender" and provide the possibility not to return to Russia for those Russian soldiers who surrender in Ukraine.

https://twitter.com/kyivindependent/status/1573779725545340930

Stocks are still in a funk. The three major indices were down Monday, indicating that last week’s troubles would continue. On Friday, the Dow hit a new intraday low for 2022, while the S&P 500 briefly went below its June low. Investors are trying to figure out how to play the Federal Reserve’s aggressive plan to fight inflation with rate hikes.

https://www.cnbc.com/2022/09/26/5-things-to-know-before-the-stock-market-opens-monday-september-26.html

Coupang is one of the largest and fastest growing e-commerce platforms on the planet. We are on a mission to revolutionize everyday lives for our customers, employees and partners. We solve problems no one has solved before to create a world where people ask, “How did we ever live without Coupang?” Coupang is a global company with offices in Beijing, Los Angeles, Seattle, Seoul, Shanghai, Silicon Valley, Tokyo and Taipei.

https://www.coupang.jobs/kr/jobs/job/rg-staff-back-end-engineer-rocket-growth-%EA%B0%9C%EB%B0%9C%EC%9E%90-%EC%A0%81%EA%B7%B9-%EC%B1%84%EC%9A%A9-%EC%A4%91-4271179/


The world is heading toward the tightest grain inventories in years despite the resumption of exports from Ukraine, as the shipments are too few and harvests from other major crop producers are smaller than initially expected, according to grain supply and crop forecast data.

Poor weather in key agricultural regions from the United States to France and China is shrinking grain harvests and cutting inventories, heightening the risk of famine in some of the world's poorest nations.

Importers, food manufacturers and livestock producers had hoped crop availability would improve after war-torn Ukraine resumed shipments from Black Sea ports this summer and U.S. farmers planted large crops. But the United States, the world's top corn producer, is now expected to harvest its smallest corn crop in three years. Drought also punished European harvests and is threatening South America's upcoming planting season.

https://www.reuters.com/markets/commodities/droughts-ukraine-war-push-global-grain-stocks-toward-worrying-decade-low-2022-09-26/

The European Union on Wednesday promised a "robust" response to any intentional disruption of its energy infrastructure after saying it suspected sabotage was behind gas leaks discovered this week on subsea Russian pipelines to Europe.

As gas spewed out under the Baltic Sea for a third day after first being detected, it remained far from clear who might be responsible for any sabotage of the Nord Stream pipelines that Russia and European partners spent billions of dollars building.

Russia, which slashed gas deliveries to Europe after the West imposed sanctions over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, has also said sabotage was a possibility.

https://www.reuters.com/business/energy/mystery-gas-leaks-hit-major-russian-undersea-gas-pipelines-europe-2022-09-27/

Ukrainian troops said they had retaken the key bastion of Lyman in occupied eastern Ukraine, a stinging defeat that prompted a close ally of Russian President Vladimir Putin to call for the possible use of low-grade nuclear weapons.

The capture on Saturday came just a day after Putin proclaimed the annexation of nearly a fifth of Ukraine - including Donetsk, where Lyman is located - and placed the regions under Russia's nuclear umbrella. Kyiv and the West condemned the ornate ceremony as an illegitimate farce.

https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukraine-celebrates-capturing-key-town-putin-ally-mulls-possible-nuclear-response-2022-10-02/

KYIV, Oct 3 (Reuters) - Ukrainian forces achieved their biggest breakthrough in the south of the country since the war began, bursting through the front and advancing rapidly along the Dnipro River on Monday, threatening to encircle thousands of Russian troops.

Kyiv gave no official confirmation of the gains, but Russian sources acknowledged that a Ukrainian tank offensive had advanced dozens of kilometers (miles) along the river's west bank, recapturing a number of villages along the way.

The breakthrough mirrors recent Ukrainian successes in the east that have turned the tide in the war against Russia, even as Moscow has tried to raise the stakes by annexing territory, ordering mobilisation and threatening nuclear retaliation.

"The information is tense, let's put it that way, because, yes there were indeed breakthroughs," Vladimir Saldo, the Russian-installed leader in occupied parts of Ukraine's Kherson province told Russian state television.

"There's a settlement called Dudchany, right along the Dnipro River, and right there, in that region, there was a breakthrough. There are settlements that are occupied by Ukrainian forces," he said.

Dudchany is around 40 km (25 miles) south of where the front stood just a day earlier, indicating one of the fastest advances of the war and by far the most rapid in the south, where Russian forces had been dug into heavily reinforced positions along a mainly static front line since the early weeks of the invasion.

While Kyiv maintained almost complete silence, as it has in the past during major offensives, some officials did describe what they referred to as unconfirmed reports of gains.

Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to Ukraine's interior ministry, posted a photo of Ukrainian soldiers posing with their flag draping a golden statue of an angel. He said it was the village of Mikhailivka, around 20 km beyond the previous front.

"In the last days, we have seen the first photo of Osokorivka... we have seen our troops near the entrance to Mykhailivka, we have seen our troops in Khreschenivka, next to the monument. This means that Zolota Balka also is under the control of our armed forces, and it means that our armed forces are moving powerfully along the banks of the Dnipro nearer to Beryslav," Serhiy Khlan, a Kherson regional council member, told Reuters, naming villages in the area.

"Officially, there is no such information yet, but the (Russian) social media pages which are panicking... absolutely confirm these photos."

SIMILAR TACTICS TO EAST

The advance in the south mirrors the tactics that have brought Kyiv major gains since the start of September in eastern Ukraine, where its forces swiftly seized territory to gain control of Russian supply lines, cutting off larger Russian forces and forcing them to retreat.

Just hours after a concert on Moscow's Red Square on Friday where Russian President Vladimir Putin proclaimed the provinces of Donetsk, Luhansk, Kherson and Zaporizhzhia to be Russian territory forever, Ukraine recaptured Lyman, the main Russian bastion in the north of Donetsk province.

That opens the way for it to advance deep into Luhansk province, threatening the main supply routes to territory Moscow captured in some of the war's bloodiest battles in June and July.

Putin has been responding to Russia's failures on the battlefield over the past month by escalating: proclaiming the annexation of occupied territory, calling up tens of thousands of men as reservists and threatening nuclear retaliation.

In the south, Ukraine's advance targets supply lines for thousands of Russian troops - perhaps as many as 25,000 - on the west bank of the Dnipro, where it sent a large contingent to halt a counter-attack Ukraine announced there in August.

Ukraine has already destroyed the main bridges across the Dnipro, forcing Russian forces to use makeshift crossings. A substantial advance along the river could bring those remaining crossings into artillery range.

"The fact we have broken through the front means that ... the Russian army has already lost the ability to attack, and today or tomorrow it could lose the ability to defend," said Oleh Zhdanov, a military analyst based in Kyiv.

"A month of our work destroying their supplies and reducing the combat effectiveness of this group means that they are functioning on minimal rations in terms of ammunition, fuel and food."

Russian military bloggers described a Ukrainian tank advance through dozens of kilometers of territory along the bank of the Dnipro River.

"When this many Russian channels are sounding the alarm, it usually means they're in trouble," Rob Lee, a senior fellow at the Foreign Policy Research Institute think-tank, wrote on Twitter.

The reports of Ukraine's battlefield advances have come amid chaos back in Russia over the mobilisation, which Putin ordered 10 days ago. Tens of thousands of Russian men have been called up, while tens of thousands of others have fled abroad.

The Russian authorities have not spelled out what the criteria are for who must be sent to fight. Putin has said mistakes were made and people were called up who should not have been.

In the latest indication of confusion, Mikhail Degtyarev, governor of the Khabarovsk region in Russia's Far East, said on Monday around half of the men called up there had been found unfit for duty and sent back home. He fired the region's military commissar.

https://www.reuters.com/world/europe/ukraine-celebrates-capturing-key-town-putin-ally-mulls-possible-nuclear-response-2022-10-02/

